p8105_hw2_kpp2126
================
Kevin P. Patterson
2022-09-26

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.2 ──
    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.3.6      ✔ purrr   0.3.4 
    ## ✔ tibble  3.1.8      ✔ dplyr   1.0.10
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.2.0      ✔ stringr 1.4.1 
    ## ✔ readr   2.1.2      ✔ forcats 0.5.2 
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(dplyr)
```

## Problem 1

*Read and clean the data; *retain line, station_name, station latitude /
longitude, routes served (route1:route11), entry, vending,
entrance_type, and ADA compliance (ada). \*Convert the entry variable
from character (YES vs NO) to a logical variable (the ifelse or recode
function may be useful).

``` r
#getwd()
transit_df =
  read.csv(
    "../../datascience/p8105_hw2_kpp2126/NYC_Transit_Subway_Entrance_And_Exit_Data.csv") %>%
  janitor::clean_names() %>%
  select(
    line, station_name, station_latitude, station_longitude, route1:route11, entry, vending, entrance_type, ada) %>%
  mutate(
    entry = ifelse(entry == "YES", TRUE, FALSE))

#Tidying transit dataframe
transit_df_tidy = transit_df %>%
  mutate_at(c('route8', 'route9', 'route10', 'route11'), as.character)

transit_df_tidy = 
  pivot_longer(
    transit_df_tidy,
    route1:route11,
    names_to = "route",
    values_to = "train")
```

*Write a short paragraph about this dataset – explain briefly what
variables the dataset contains, describe your data cleaning steps so
far, and give the dimension (rows x columns) of the resulting dataset.
*Are these data tidy?

The resulting dataset has 1868, 19 observations and column variables
respectively. Among the 19 columns, there are a mixture of numeric,
logical, and character vectors in the dataframe. Despite there being
1868 observations, these do not represent the true distinct stations
because there are duplicates. This is due to the dataset being in wide
format, made to accommodate for columns that were in the larger dataset.
Thus, the current dataframe is not tidy and I run an example of tidying
the dataframe to a longer format, making the `route1:route11` columns
into a single variable and its values to another variable called
`train`. The dimensions of the tidied dataframe are 20548, 10
observations and columns variables respectively, reflecting the longer
formatted dataframe.

\*How many distinct stations are there? Note that stations are
identified both by name and by line (e.g. 125th St 8th Avenue; 125st
Broadway; 125st Lenox); the distinct function may be useful here. There
are `465` distinct stations that are identified both by name and by
line.

``` r
transit_df %>%
  select(station_name, line) %>%
  distinct
```

    ##                                station_name              line
    ## 1                                   25th St          4 Avenue
    ## 2                                   36th St          4 Avenue
    ## 3                                   45th St          4 Avenue
    ## 4                                   53rd St          4 Avenue
    ## 5                                   59th St          4 Avenue
    ## 6                                   77th St          4 Avenue
    ## 7                                   86th St          4 Avenue
    ## 8                                   95th St          4 Avenue
    ## 9                                    9th St          4 Avenue
    ## 10                 Atlantic Av-Barclays Ctr          4 Avenue
    ## 11                             Bay Ridge Av          4 Avenue
    ## 12                                DeKalb Av          4 Avenue
    ## 13                               Pacific St          4 Avenue
    ## 14                              Prospect Av          4 Avenue
    ## 15                                 Union St          4 Avenue
    ## 16                            Grand Central   42nd St Shuttle
    ## 17                             Times Square   42nd St Shuttle
    ## 18                                  14th St          6 Avenue
    ## 19                                  23rd St          6 Avenue
    ## 20                                   2nd Av          6 Avenue
    ## 21                                  34th St          6 Avenue
    ## 22                                  42nd St          6 Avenue
    ## 23           47-50th Sts Rockefeller Center          6 Avenue
    ## 24                                   4th Av          6 Avenue
    ## 25                                  57th St          6 Avenue
    ## 26                                   7th Av          6 Avenue
    ## 27                                Bergen St          6 Avenue
    ## 28                    Broadway-Lafayette St          6 Avenue
    ## 29                               Carroll St          6 Avenue
    ## 30                                Church Av          6 Avenue
    ## 31                              Delancey St          6 Avenue
    ## 32                            East Broadway          6 Avenue
    ## 33                    Fort Hamilton Parkway          6 Avenue
    ## 34                                 Grand St          6 Avenue
    ## 35                      Prospect Park-15 St          6 Avenue
    ## 36                             Smith-9th St          6 Avenue
    ## 37                                  York St          6 Avenue
    ## 38                                  21st St       63rd Street
    ## 39                             Lexington Av       63rd Street
    ## 40                         Roosevelt Island       63rd Street
    ## 41                                 103rd St          8 Avenue
    ## 42                                 116th St          8 Avenue
    ## 43                                 125th St          8 Avenue
    ## 44                                 135th St          8 Avenue
    ## 45                                 145th St          8 Avenue
    ## 46                                  14th St          8 Avenue
    ## 47                                 155th St          8 Avenue
    ## 48                  163rd St - Amsterdam Av          8 Avenue
    ## 49            168th St - Washington Heights          8 Avenue
    ## 50                                 175th St          8 Avenue
    ## 51                                 181st St          8 Avenue
    ## 52                                 190th St          8 Avenue
    ## 53                                  23rd St          8 Avenue
    ## 54                                  34th St          8 Avenue
    ## 55                                  42nd St          8 Avenue
    ## 56                                  50th St          8 Avenue
    ## 57                                  59th St          8 Avenue
    ## 58                                  72nd St          8 Avenue
    ## 59      81st St - Museum of Natural History          8 Avenue
    ## 60                                  86th St          8 Avenue
    ## 61                                  96th St          8 Avenue
    ## 62                          Broadway-Nassau          8 Avenue
    ## 63                                 Canal St          8 Avenue
    ## 64               Cathedral Parkway-110th St          8 Avenue
    ## 65                              Chambers St          8 Avenue
    ## 66                      Dyckman St-200th St          8 Avenue
    ## 67                                  High St          8 Avenue
    ## 68                        Inwood - 207th St          8 Avenue
    ## 69                                Spring St          8 Avenue
    ## 70                              West 4th St          8 Avenue
    ## 71                       World Trade Center          8 Avenue
    ## 72                         Jamaica-Van Wyck         Archer Av
    ## 73  Parsons Blvd-Archer Av - Jamaica Center         Archer Av
    ## 74             Sutphin Blvd-Archer Av - JFK         Archer Av
    ## 75                           30 Av-Grand Av           Astoria
    ## 76                      36 Av-Washington Av           Astoria
    ## 77                           39 Av-Beebe Av           Astoria
    ## 78                     Astoria Blvd-Hoyt Av           Astoria
    ## 79                                 Broadway           Astoria
    ## 80                             Ditmars Blvd           Astoria
    ## 81                                   7th Av          Brighton
    ## 82                              Atlantic Av          Brighton
    ## 83                                     Av H          Brighton
    ## 84                                     Av J          Brighton
    ## 85                                     Av M          Brighton
    ## 86                                     Av U          Brighton
    ## 87                               Beverly Rd          Brighton
    ## 88                           Brighton Beach          Brighton
    ## 89                                Church Av          Brighton
    ## 90                             Cortelyou Rd          Brighton
    ## 91                            Kings Highway          Brighton
    ## 92                                  Neck Rd          Brighton
    ## 93                               Newkirk Av          Brighton
    ## 94                            Ocean Parkway          Brighton
    ## 95                              Parkside Av          Brighton
    ## 96                            Prospect Park          Brighton
    ## 97                           Sheepshead Bay          Brighton
    ## 98                             Stillwell Av          Brighton
    ## 99                              West 8th St          Brighton
    ## 100                                 23rd St          Broadway
    ## 101                                 28th St          Broadway
    ## 102                                 34th St          Broadway
    ## 103                                 49th St          Broadway
    ## 104                                 57th St          Broadway
    ## 105                                  5th Av          Broadway
    ## 106                                  8th St          Broadway
    ## 107                           Canal St (UL)          Broadway
    ## 108                               City Hall          Broadway
    ## 109                            Cortlandt St          Broadway
    ## 110                                Court St          Broadway
    ## 111                             Lawrence St          Broadway
    ## 112                            Lexington Av          Broadway
    ## 113                               Prince St          Broadway
    ## 114                               Rector St          Broadway
    ## 115                    Times Square-42nd St          Broadway
    ## 116                            Union Square          Broadway
    ## 117                            Whitehall St          Broadway
    ## 118                       104th St-102nd St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 119                                111th St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 120                                121st St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 121                              Alabama Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 122                             Chauncey St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 123                            Cleveland St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 124                             Crescent St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 125                           Cypress Hills  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 126                    Elderts Lane-75th St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 127                             Flushing Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 128                  Forest Parkway-85th St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 129                                Gates Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 130                               Halsey St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 131                                Hewes St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 132                            Kosciusko St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 133                              Lorimer St  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 134                                Marcy Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 135                               Myrtle Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 136                              Norwood Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 137                           Van Siclen Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 138                          Woodhaven Blvd  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 139                                103rd St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 140            116th St-Columbia University  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 141                                125th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 142                   137th St-City College  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 143                                145th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 144                                 14th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 145                                157th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 146                                168th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 147                                181st St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 148                                 18th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 149                                191st St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 150                                207th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 151                                215th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 152                                231st St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 153                                238th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 154                                 23rd St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 155                                 28th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 156                                 34th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 157                                 50th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 158                 59th St-Columbus Circle  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 159                  66th St-Lincoln Center  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 160                                 72nd St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 161                                 79th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 162                                 86th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 163                                 96th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 164                                Canal St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 165              Cathedral Parkway-110th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 166                             Chambers St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 167                          Christopher St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 168                              Dyckman St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 169                             Franklin St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 170                              Houston St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 171                    Marble Hill-225th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 172                               Rector St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 173                             South Ferry  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 174                            Times Square  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 175             Van Cortlandt Park-242nd St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 176                                  1st Av          Canarsie
    ## 177                                  3rd Av          Canarsie
    ## 178                                  6th Av          Canarsie
    ## 179                                  8th Av          Canarsie
    ## 180                             Atlantic Av          Canarsie
    ## 181                              Bedford Av          Canarsie
    ## 182                             Bushwick Av          Canarsie
    ## 183             Canarsie - Rockaway Parkway          Canarsie
    ## 184                               DeKalb Av          Canarsie
    ## 185                           East 105th St          Canarsie
    ## 186                               Graham Av          Canarsie
    ## 187                                Grand St          Canarsie
    ## 188                               Halsey St          Canarsie
    ## 189                            Jefferson St          Canarsie
    ## 190                              Livonia Av          Canarsie
    ## 191                              Lorimer St          Canarsie
    ## 192                             Montrose Av          Canarsie
    ## 193                               Morgan Av          Canarsie
    ## 194                               Myrtle Av          Canarsie
    ## 195                             New Lots Av          Canarsie
    ## 196                               Sutter Av          Canarsie
    ## 197                            Union Square          Canarsie
    ## 198                               Wilson Av          Canarsie
    ## 199                            Borough Hall             Clark
    ## 200                                Clark St             Clark
    ## 201                               Fulton St             Clark
    ## 202                              Park Place             Clark
    ## 203                                 Wall St             Clark
    ## 204                                155th St         Concourse
    ## 205                                167th St         Concourse
    ## 206                                170th St         Concourse
    ## 207                           174-175th Sts         Concourse
    ## 208                         182nd-183rd Sts         Concourse
    ## 209                       Bedford Park Blvd         Concourse
    ## 210                              Fordham Rd         Concourse
    ## 211                          Kingsbridge Rd         Concourse
    ## 212                        Norwood-205th St         Concourse
    ## 213                              Tremont Av         Concourse
    ## 214                 Yankee Stadium-161st St         Concourse
    ## 215                            Stillwell Av      Coney Island
    ## 216                             West 8th St      Coney Island
    ## 217                                 21st St         Crosstown
    ## 218                    Bedford-Nostrand Avs         Crosstown
    ## 219                                Broadway         Crosstown
    ## 220                              Classon Av         Crosstown
    ## 221                  Clinton-Washington Avs         Crosstown
    ## 222                             Flushing Av         Crosstown
    ## 223                               Fulton St         Crosstown
    ## 224                           Greenpoint Av         Crosstown
    ## 225           Long Island City-Court Square         Crosstown
    ## 226                         Metropolitan Av         Crosstown
    ## 227                   Myrtle-Willoughby Avs         Crosstown
    ## 228                               Nassau Av         Crosstown
    ## 229                                 18th Av            Culver
    ## 230                                    Av I            Culver
    ## 231                                    Av N            Culver
    ## 232                                    Av P            Culver
    ## 233                                    Av U            Culver
    ## 234                                    Av X            Culver
    ## 235                     Bay Parkway-22nd Av            Culver
    ## 236                               Ditmas Av            Culver
    ## 237                           Kings Highway            Culver
    ## 238                   Neptune Av-Van Siclen            Culver
    ## 239                           Baychester Av           Dyre Av
    ## 240                     Eastchester-Dyre Av           Dyre Av
    ## 241                             Gun Hill Rd           Dyre Av
    ## 242                             Morris Park           Dyre Av
    ## 243                          Pelham Parkway           Dyre Av
    ## 244                Atlantic Av-Barclays Ctr   Eastern Parkway
    ## 245                               Bergen St   Eastern Parkway
    ## 246         Eastern Parkway-Brooklyn Museum   Eastern Parkway
    ## 247                             Franklin Av   Eastern Parkway
    ## 248                        Grand Army Plaza   Eastern Parkway
    ## 249                                 Hoyt St   Eastern Parkway
    ## 250                             Kingston Av   Eastern Parkway
    ## 251                               Nevins St   Eastern Parkway
    ## 252                             Nostrand Av   Eastern Parkway
    ## 253                                Utica Av   Eastern Parkway
    ## 254                                103rd St          Flushing
    ## 255                                111th St          Flushing
    ## 256                    45 Rd-Court House Sq          Flushing
    ## 257                                  5th Av          Flushing
    ## 258                 82nd St-Jackson Heights          Flushing
    ## 259                        90th St Elmhurst          Flushing
    ## 260                        Bliss St-46th St          Flushing
    ## 261                        Broadway-74th St          Flushing
    ## 262                         Fisk Av-69th St          Flushing
    ## 263                        Flushing-Main St          Flushing
    ## 264                   Grand Central-42nd St          Flushing
    ## 265                           Hunters Point          Flushing
    ## 266                           Junction Blvd          Flushing
    ## 267                      Lincoln Av-52nd St          Flushing
    ## 268                       Lowery St-40th St          Flushing
    ## 269                    Mets - Willets Point          Flushing
    ## 270                        Queensboro Plaza          Flushing
    ## 271                       Rawson St-33rd St          Flushing
    ## 272                  Vernon Blvd-Jackson Av          Flushing
    ## 273                     Woodside Av-61st St          Flushing
    ## 274                         Botanic Gardens          Franklin
    ## 275                             Franklin Av          Franklin
    ## 276                              Park Place          Franklin
    ## 277         Broadway Junction-East New York            Fulton
    ## 278                Clinton & Washington Avs            Fulton
    ## 279                               Euclid Av            Fulton
    ## 280                             Franklin Av            Fulton
    ## 281                     Hoyt & Schermerhorn            Fulton
    ## 282                   Jay St - Borough Hall            Fulton
    ## 283                         Kingston-Throop            Fulton
    ## 284                            Lafayette Av            Fulton
    ## 285                              Liberty Av            Fulton
    ## 286                             Nostrand Av            Fulton
    ## 287                                Ralph Av            Fulton
    ## 288                             Rockaway Av            Fulton
    ## 289                             Shepherd Av            Fulton
    ## 290                                Utica Av            Fulton
    ## 291                           Van Siclen Av            Fulton
    ## 292                                138th St            Jerome
    ## 293                149th St-Grand Concourse            Jerome
    ## 294                                167th St            Jerome
    ## 295                                170th St            Jerome
    ## 296                                176th St            Jerome
    ## 297                                183rd St            Jerome
    ## 298        Bedford Park Blvd-Lehman College            Jerome
    ## 299                             Burnside Av            Jerome
    ## 300                              Fordham Rd            Jerome
    ## 301                          Kingsbridge Rd            Jerome
    ## 302                         Mosholu Parkway            Jerome
    ## 303                              Mt Eden Av            Jerome
    ## 304                                Woodlawn            Jerome
    ## 305                 Yankee Stadium-161st St            Jerome
    ## 306             110th St-Central Park North             Lenox
    ## 307                                116th St             Lenox
    ## 308                                125th St             Lenox
    ## 309                                135th St             Lenox
    ## 310                                145th St             Lenox
    ## 311                         Harlem-148th St             Lenox
    ## 312                                103rd St         Lexington
    ## 313                                110th St         Lexington
    ## 314                                116th St         Lexington
    ## 315                                125th St         Lexington
    ## 316                    14th St-Union Square         Lexington
    ## 317                                 23rd St         Lexington
    ## 318                                 28th St         Lexington
    ## 319                                 33rd St         Lexington
    ## 320                                 51st St         Lexington
    ## 321                                 59th St         Lexington
    ## 322                  68th St-Hunter College         Lexington
    ## 323                                 77th St         Lexington
    ## 324                                 86th St         Lexington
    ## 325                                 96th St         Lexington
    ## 326                             Astor Place         Lexington
    ## 327                             Bleecker St         Lexington
    ## 328                            Borough Hall         Lexington
    ## 329                           Bowling Green         Lexington
    ## 330               Brooklyn Bridge-City Hall         Lexington
    ## 331                                Canal St         Lexington
    ## 332                               Fulton St         Lexington
    ## 333                   Grand Central-42nd St         Lexington
    ## 334                               Spring St         Lexington
    ## 335                                 Wall St         Lexington
    ## 336                      104th St-Oxford Av           Liberty
    ## 337                   111th St-Greenwood Av           Liberty
    ## 338                       80th St-Hudson St           Liberty
    ## 339                         88th St-Boyd Av           Liberty
    ## 340                                Grant Av           Liberty
    ## 341                           Lefferts Blvd           Liberty
    ## 342                           Rockaway Blvd           Liberty
    ## 343                              Central Av            Myrtle
    ## 344                               Forest Av            Myrtle
    ## 345                           Fresh Pond Rd            Myrtle
    ## 346                        Knickerbocker Av            Myrtle
    ## 347                         Metropolitan Av            Myrtle
    ## 348                               Seneca Av            Myrtle
    ## 349                                  Bowery            Nassau
    ## 350                                Broad St            Nassau
    ## 351                                Canal St            Nassau
    ## 352                             Chambers St            Nassau
    ## 353                                Essex St            Nassau
    ## 354                               Fulton St            Nassau
    ## 355                               Junius St          New Lots
    ## 356                             New Lots Av          New Lots
    ## 357                         Pennsylvania Av          New Lots
    ## 358                             Rockaway Av          New Lots
    ## 359                             Saratoga Av          New Lots
    ## 360                               Sutter Av          New Lots
    ## 361                           Van Siclen Av          New Lots
    ## 362                              Beverly Rd          Nostrand
    ## 363                               Church Av          Nostrand
    ## 364            Flatbush Av-Brooklyn College          Nostrand
    ## 365                              Newkirk Av          Nostrand
    ## 366                            President St          Nostrand
    ## 367                             Sterling St          Nostrand
    ## 368                             Winthrop St          Nostrand
    ## 369                        138th St-3rd Ave            Pelham
    ## 370                                Brook Av            Pelham
    ## 371                                Buhre Av            Pelham
    ## 372                          Castle Hill Av            Pelham
    ## 373                              Cypress Av            Pelham
    ## 374              East 143rd St-St Mary's St            Pelham
    ## 375                           East 149th St            Pelham
    ## 376                                Elder Av            Pelham
    ## 377                          Hunts Point Av            Pelham
    ## 378                             Longwood Av            Pelham
    ## 379                           Middletown Rd            Pelham
    ## 380                Morrison Av-Soundview Av            Pelham
    ## 381               Parkchester-East 177th St            Pelham
    ## 382                         Pelham Bay Park            Pelham
    ## 383                          St Lawrence Av            Pelham
    ## 384      Westchester Square-East Tremont Av            Pelham
    ## 385                             Whitlock Av            Pelham
    ## 386                               Zerega Av            Pelham
    ## 387                                169th St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 388                          23rd St-Ely Av  Queens Boulevard
    ## 389                                 36th St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 390                                 46th St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 391                          5th Av-53rd St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 392                    63rd Drive-Rego Park  Queens Boulevard
    ## 393                                 65th St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 394                                 67th Av  Queens Boulevard
    ## 395                                 75th Av  Queens Boulevard
    ## 396                                  7th Av  Queens Boulevard
    ## 397                 Briarwood-Van Wyck Blvd  Queens Boulevard
    ## 398                             Elmhurst Av  Queens Boulevard
    ## 399                    Forest Hills-71st Av  Queens Boulevard
    ## 400                        Grand Av-Newtown  Queens Boulevard
    ## 401           Jackson Heights-Roosevelt Ave  Queens Boulevard
    ## 402                        Jamaica-179th St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 403              Kew Gardens-Union Turnpike  Queens Boulevard
    ## 404                    Lexington Av-53rd St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 405                           Northern Blvd  Queens Boulevard
    ## 406                            Parsons Blvd  Queens Boulevard
    ## 407                            Queens Plaza  Queens Boulevard
    ## 408                             Steinway St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 409                            Sutphin Blvd  Queens Boulevard
    ## 410                          Woodhaven Blvd  Queens Boulevard
    ## 411                      Aqueduct Racetrack          Rockaway
    ## 412               Aqueduct-North Conduit Av          Rockaway
    ## 413                          Beach 105th St          Rockaway
    ## 414                           Beach 25th St          Rockaway
    ## 415                           Beach 36th St          Rockaway
    ## 416                           Beach 44th St          Rockaway
    ## 417                           Beach 60th St          Rockaway
    ## 418                           Beach 67th St          Rockaway
    ## 419                           Beach 90th St          Rockaway
    ## 420                           Beach 98th St          Rockaway
    ## 421                           Broad Channel          Rockaway
    ## 422                    Far Rockaway-Mott Av          Rockaway
    ## 423                            Howard Beach          Rockaway
    ## 424               Rockaway Park-Beach 116th          Rockaway
    ## 425                                 18th Av         Sea Beach
    ## 426                                 20th Av         Sea Beach
    ## 427                                 86th St         Sea Beach
    ## 428                                  8th Av         Sea Beach
    ## 429                                    Av U         Sea Beach
    ## 430                     Bay Parkway-22nd Av         Sea Beach
    ## 431                   Fort Hamilton Parkway         Sea Beach
    ## 432                           Kings Highway         Sea Beach
    ## 433                          New Utrecht Av         Sea Beach
    ## 434                                 18th Av          West End
    ## 435                                 20th Av          West End
    ## 436                                 25th Av          West End
    ## 437                                 50th St          West End
    ## 438                                 55th St          West End
    ## 439                                 62nd St          West End
    ## 440                                 71st St          West End
    ## 441                                 79th St          West End
    ## 442                                  9th Av          West End
    ## 443                             Bay 50th St          West End
    ## 444                             Bay Parkway          West End
    ## 445                   Fort Hamilton Parkway          West End
    ## 446                         149th St-3rd Av White Plains Road
    ## 447                                174th St White Plains Road
    ## 448                                219th St White Plains Road
    ## 449                                225th St White Plains Road
    ## 450                                233rd St White Plains Road
    ## 451                      238th St-Nereid Av White Plains Road
    ## 452                             Allerton Av White Plains Road
    ## 453                         Bronx Park East White Plains Road
    ## 454                                Burke Av White Plains Road
    ## 455                           East 180th St White Plains Road
    ## 456           East Tremont Av-West Farms Sq White Plains Road
    ## 457                              Freeman St White Plains Road
    ## 458                             Gun Hill Rd White Plains Road
    ## 459                            Intervale Av White Plains Road
    ## 460                              Jackson Av White Plains Road
    ## 461                          Pelham Parkway White Plains Road
    ## 462                             Prospect Av White Plains Road
    ## 463                              Simpson St White Plains Road
    ## 464                      Wakefield-241st St White Plains Road
    ## 465                      34 St Hudson Yards          Flushing

\*How many stations are ADA compliant? There are `84` distinct stations,
identified both by name and by line, that are ADA compliant.

``` r
transit_df %>%
  filter(ada == TRUE) %>%
  select(station_name, line) %>%
  distinct
```

    ##                               station_name              line
    ## 1                 Atlantic Av-Barclays Ctr          4 Avenue
    ## 2                                DeKalb Av          4 Avenue
    ## 3                               Pacific St          4 Avenue
    ## 4                            Grand Central   42nd St Shuttle
    ## 5                                  34th St          6 Avenue
    ## 6           47-50th Sts Rockefeller Center          6 Avenue
    ## 7                                Church Av          6 Avenue
    ## 8                                  21st St       63rd Street
    ## 9                             Lexington Av       63rd Street
    ## 10                        Roosevelt Island       63rd Street
    ## 11                                 14th St          8 Avenue
    ## 12           168th St - Washington Heights          8 Avenue
    ## 13                                175th St          8 Avenue
    ## 14                                 34th St          8 Avenue
    ## 15                                 42nd St          8 Avenue
    ## 16                                 50th St          8 Avenue
    ## 17                                 59th St          8 Avenue
    ## 18                       Inwood - 207th St          8 Avenue
    ## 19                             West 4th St          8 Avenue
    ## 20                      World Trade Center          8 Avenue
    ## 21 Parsons Blvd-Archer Av - Jamaica Center         Archer Av
    ## 22            Sutphin Blvd-Archer Av - JFK         Archer Av
    ## 23                             Atlantic Av          Brighton
    ## 24                           Prospect Park          Brighton
    ## 25                            Stillwell Av          Brighton
    ## 26                                 34th St          Broadway
    ## 27                                 49th St          Broadway
    ## 28                    Times Square-42nd St          Broadway
    ## 29                            Union Square          Broadway
    ## 30                             Flushing Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 31                                Marcy Av  Broadway Jamaica
    ## 32                                231st St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 33                                 34th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 34                 59th St-Columbus Circle  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 35                  66th St-Lincoln Center  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 36                                 72nd St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 37                                 96th St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 38                             Chambers St  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 39                             South Ferry  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 40                            Times Square  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 41                                  8th Av          Canarsie
    ## 42             Canarsie - Rockaway Parkway          Canarsie
    ## 43                               Myrtle Av          Canarsie
    ## 44                            Union Square          Canarsie
    ## 45                            Borough Hall             Clark
    ## 46                 Yankee Stadium-161st St         Concourse
    ## 47                            Stillwell Av      Coney Island
    ## 48                Atlantic Av-Barclays Ctr   Eastern Parkway
    ## 49                                Utica Av   Eastern Parkway
    ## 50                        Broadway-74th St          Flushing
    ## 51                        Flushing-Main St          Flushing
    ## 52                   Grand Central-42nd St          Flushing
    ## 53                           Junction Blvd          Flushing
    ## 54                     Woodside Av-61st St          Flushing
    ## 55                             Franklin Av          Franklin
    ## 56                              Park Place          Franklin
    ## 57                               Euclid Av            Fulton
    ## 58                             Franklin Av            Fulton
    ## 59                              Fordham Rd            Jerome
    ## 60                 Yankee Stadium-161st St            Jerome
    ## 61                                135th St             Lenox
    ## 62                                125th St         Lexington
    ## 63                                 51st St         Lexington
    ## 64                            Borough Hall         Lexington
    ## 65                           Bowling Green         Lexington
    ## 66               Brooklyn Bridge-City Hall         Lexington
    ## 67                                Canal St         Lexington
    ## 68                   Grand Central-42nd St         Lexington
    ## 69                         Metropolitan Av            Myrtle
    ## 70                               Church Av          Nostrand
    ## 71            Flatbush Av-Brooklyn College          Nostrand
    ## 72                         Pelham Bay Park            Pelham
    ## 73           Jackson Heights-Roosevelt Ave  Queens Boulevard
    ## 74                        Jamaica-179th St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 75              Kew Gardens-Union Turnpike  Queens Boulevard
    ## 76                    Lexington Av-53rd St  Queens Boulevard
    ## 77                            Queens Plaza  Queens Boulevard
    ## 78                            Howard Beach          Rockaway
    ## 79               Rockaway Park-Beach 116th          Rockaway
    ## 80                         149th St-3rd Av White Plains Road
    ## 81                                233rd St White Plains Road
    ## 82                          Pelham Parkway White Plains Road
    ## 83                              Simpson St White Plains Road
    ## 84                      34 St Hudson Yards          Flushing

\*What proportion of station entrances / exits without vending allow
entrance? The proportion of station entrances/exits without vending that
allow entrance is 0.3770492.

``` r
transit_df %>%
  filter(vending == "NO") %>%
  pull(entry) %>%
  mean
```

    ## [1] 0.3770492

\*Reformat data so that route number and route name are distinct
variables. How many distinct stations serve the A train? Of the stations
that serve the A train, how many are ADA compliant?

There are `60` distinct stations that serve the A train, and of these
stations there are `17` stations are ADA compliant.

``` r
transit_df_tidy %>%
  filter(train == "A") %>%
  select(station_name, line) %>%
  distinct
```

    ## # A tibble: 60 × 2
    ##    station_name                  line           
    ##    <chr>                         <chr>          
    ##  1 Times Square                  42nd St Shuttle
    ##  2 125th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  3 145th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  4 14th St                       8 Avenue       
    ##  5 168th St - Washington Heights 8 Avenue       
    ##  6 175th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  7 181st St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  8 190th St                      8 Avenue       
    ##  9 34th St                       8 Avenue       
    ## 10 42nd St                       8 Avenue       
    ## # … with 50 more rows

``` r
transit_df_tidy %>%
  filter(train == "A", ada == TRUE) %>%
  select(station_name, line) %>%
  distinct
```

    ## # A tibble: 17 × 2
    ##    station_name                  line            
    ##    <chr>                         <chr>           
    ##  1 14th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  2 168th St - Washington Heights 8 Avenue        
    ##  3 175th St                      8 Avenue        
    ##  4 34th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  5 42nd St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  6 59th St                       8 Avenue        
    ##  7 Inwood - 207th St             8 Avenue        
    ##  8 West 4th St                   8 Avenue        
    ##  9 World Trade Center            8 Avenue        
    ## 10 Times Square-42nd St          Broadway        
    ## 11 59th St-Columbus Circle       Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 12 Times Square                  Broadway-7th Ave
    ## 13 8th Av                        Canarsie        
    ## 14 Franklin Av                   Franklin        
    ## 15 Euclid Av                     Fulton          
    ## 16 Franklin Av                   Fulton          
    ## 17 Howard Beach                  Rockaway
